hey everyone how's it goin Lazlo
Montgomery here just as I feared as soon
as I left the friendly confines of
Clermont there was a degradation in the
frequency of weekly podcasts so mm-hmm
my apologies for the delay today we're
finally looking at the Silk Road I
couldn't bring a lot of books out with
me last week to Germany so I relied
mostly on Francis woods book the Silk
Road 2,000 years in the heart of Asia
published in 2002 I was happy to get to
Reno the Silk Road Francis would
basically delivers the whole product to
you complete with black-and-white and
color photos as well front and center
and today's topic are two main forces of
nature first are the various Central
Asian people who made up all the towns
cities empires and whatnot of Central
Asia and the second was the infamous
terrain that these rugged travelers
faced off against each time they left
the safety and comfort of the oases
these Central Asians tie to parts of the
world together Europe and China they did
this through the mechanism of trade and
through their perfectly centrally
located geographic position they were
the ones who lived in the lands in
between these two empires so it was only
natural that they would act in the role
as the middlemen who performed as a
catalyst to bring East and West together
both sides had cool and interesting
stuff that the other wanted so it was
only natural
once they both learned of each other's
existence between the first centuries
straddling BC and AD that something like
the Silk Road would happen how far back
does this go when all this trade started
how did it all start why did they use
the routes they did who were all these
Central Asian people and would we know
China traded silk lacquerware Jade and
other finished goods but what did they
get in return
and what were all these other ancillary
benefits of the Silk Road today we'll
try and answer these questions and
reacquaint ourselves with the Silk Road
the sich holder loom you know that's
what we call it
Silk Road but back in the days when all
those caravans were making the trek if
you asked a local which way to the Silk
Road they wouldn't have known what the
heck you were talking about the Silk
Road first got its name from the German
Explorer adventurer scientist geographer
baron ferdinand von Richtofen he lived
from 1833 to 1905 which means the term
Silk Road hasn't been around that long
he was the first to say decidin Strasse
in 1877 pardon my Dodge the biggest
challenge for me has always been keeping
all the various Central Asian kingdoms
and civilizations straight which were
the Turkish influence ones which were
the Persian who spoke which languages
and does anyone speak that language
anymore today
for example our heroes in this episode
were a Persian people called sogdians we
know they were Persian because of their
language Brooke they were the essential
ingredient for so much of the time that
the Silk Road was at the height of its
importance
it was the sogdians more than anyone
else who facilitated everything along
the trade routes and created the
infrastructure so to speak that allowed
for the dissemination of knowledge
particularly science religion and all
the various tidbits of information that
sort of greased the wheels of progress
and increased man's comfort and
convenience one drop at a time they were
at the center of it all in fact the
whole lingua franca of the Silk Road was
their language Sogdian not Chinese but
there is no sogdia or sogdians and their
religion zoroastrianism
along with Buddhism and a key ISM and
Nestorian Christianity were once the
great religions of Central Asia until
the time of the Prophet Muhammad very
little
today resembles how it used to be after
the Battle of Talas and 751 that was it
things were never the same again and it
was only a matter of time before all of
this massive land area turned to Islam
so we have in today's episode
major civilizations great powers in
their day that played a starring role in
the history of the Silk Road and they
don't even exist anymore
and the way people moved around in
Central Asia and way everything is
played out there over the millennia
there aren't a lot of easy bullet points
and factoids to make it easy to
understand and keep track of who was who
and what happens to them
sogdia today well if you laid a overlay
of their empire down over a political
map in the present day it would cover
Western Kyrgyzstan most of Tajikistan
the eastern part of Uzbekistan a smidgen
of Kazakhstan and a drop of Afghanistan
their capital was at the legendary city
of Samarkand which was later the capital
of tamerlane empire and once one of the
Centers of the universe tamerlane of
course that ultimate killing machine who
did all his damage during the late 14th
century today Samarkand is the second
biggest city in Uzbekistan so this sort
of illustrates the complications of the
times and why it's so hard to get your
arms around the whole Silk Road the
China side of it no problem everything
is excellently documented but that's
just one side of things
most of the action wasn't happening in
China the overwhelming majority of the
lands where the Silk Road passed through
were far far away from China proper and
like I said pass through kingdoms that
not only don't exist anymore but didn't
leave much of a written record like
their Chinese business partners did we'd
have to go all the way back to the Han
Dynasty to start at the beginning
this doesn't mean there wasn't any trade
or interaction going on prior to the
honduran Han 206 BC to 8 ad that China's
Emperor's first gave it a serious
thought about what worlds might possibly
lay beyond those show-nu barbarians on
China's western border China history
podcast 47 we looked at the ultimate
adventurer Jung Chen who during his
travels out west beginning in 138 BC saw
Chinese goods in distant markets so
trade between China and the lands of
Central Asia was already going on it
didn't spontaneously begin with the
advent of the Silk Road these first
Fairless traders perhaps from a time as
early as Alexander the Great
they were the initial ones who began to
create a beaten path to walk on these
Trailblazers were the first to mark the
rugged pass that traversed some of the
most frightful terrains and climates on
planet earth eight months of winter from
September to May minus 40 Celsius and in
the summer blazingly hot and
inhospitable yeah John Chen came back
and told the Emperor to things and lucky
for the entire Chinese race that's
sitting on the throne in Chang An at the
time was a man as intelligent fearless
educated and visionary as the Han
Emperor Wu D Jong chin reported to his
majesty the shocking news that China was
not the only big kid on this block there
were other civilizations out there
seemingly as mighty and as advanced as
the Middle Kingdom the other thing he
reported was that those people way out
to the west of China they went totally
gaga for these common everyday things
that China made so hun kudi fulminated
awhile and put two and two together and
he figured out let's see huge distant
untapped markets great demand for the
country's products and he did some
arithmetic and figuring in his head and
then the light bulb came on and then
hung Moody used his powers as Emperor to
facilitate the early growth of the Silk
Road and great wealth began to flow into
China now he had an idea that these
people of da Qin or you know as Rome was
supposedly called back then by the
Chinese they loved Chinese made silk
garments and fabrics and of course back
then nothing worn by the swells of
ancient Rome screamed out I'm filthy
rich like silk you know and it wasn't
just the Romans Chinese silk was in high
demand and all the major markets of
Central and Western Asia things really
took off after John
before junkeum the east-west trade
volume was at a slow trickle after Jung
Jin that's when it became a steady
stream even though they didn't call it
the Silk Road back then it was during
the Han Dynasty that the maps first
started to be drawn and then over the
next half millennia from the fall of the
Eastern Han the Three Kingdoms the Jin
the southern and northern dynasties and
into the sway the routes developed more
and more and when tonkatsu and
tongue-tied zone assured in the Tang
Dynasty that's where we entered the
Golden Age of the Silk Road that was the
time when Buddhism was all the rage and
the Silk Road was flowing with monks and
pilgrims of both directions all playing
their individual parts and you know
spreading Buddhist culture in China okay
let's not get too far ahead of ourselves
you know we always refer to this fabled
route as the Silk Road but that's not
entirely correct it's not like this
route 66 type Road that wines from
Chang'an to somewhere in Bactria if we
really want to call it what it was we
should say the Silk Roads plural Chang
An and later law yang was where it all
began or ended depending on your outlook
if you had something to sell to the
China market the kam town fair of its
day would have been the imperial capital
in these magnificent traders from
Central Asia you know from a dozen
different tribes and cultures you know
with all their unique garments and hats
and accessories which you know
distinguish them from one another they
just camp out there and sell whatever
they had and then load up with whatever
they could and took that several
thousand miles left back to the lands
where they came from which could have
been as far away as Iran Afghanistan
Turkmenistan Kazakhstan the road back to
Central Asia began and cheong on and
then after you left the comfort to the
city walls it was the city of dun flung
where you had that first major fork in
the road Dunhuang is about as far west
as you could possibly go in gansu
province it's it's at done
we're gonn su rubs up against ching
chong province and way back in the Silk
Road days Xin Jiang was known as Chinese
Turkestan that really was the end of the
world as far as China was concerned if
China's world ended at the farther and
most gate of the Great Wall at Ju Guan
if you just walked west if you just
walked west from there maybe four or
five more days you'd hit done Wong today
Don Juan is most famous for their caves
of a thousand buddhas the Qin for dong
in don juan are the lone men and young
gang grottoes the caves and grottoes of
Don Juan are right up there with the
great wall Forbidden City Temple of
Heaven gwei lean and you know all these
great historic and cultural sites to see
in China tourists and Buddhist pilgrims
flock there regularly and from the
fourth to the tenth century this town
was one of the great world centers of
Buddhism today you can see a thousand
years of Buddhist art there its
significance to Buddhism was one thing
but as far as our little story goes
didn't Juan's location is where if you
were traveling in a westward direction
trying to make your way to the bowel of
Central Asia you'd come upon one of the
most fearsome natural obstacles on the
planet Earth the Taklamakan desert even
today you'd want to avoid that place
this place is so desolate
it's where China used to test all their
nuclear bombs Dunhuang was the last stop
before you came face to face with this
very unforgiving place so when you set
out from Dunhuang you had to make your
choice to go around the rim of the
desert using a northern route or a
southern route imagine a flattened rugby
ball shape if you will that's the
approximate shape of the Taklamakan
desert one route to the Silk Road ran on
the top side and the other ran along the
bottom side and like I said the the
eastern tip of that rugby ball would
have been done wrong and the western tip
where the northern and southern routes
came together again
that was in Kashgar and then from
kashgar that was the launching point to
wherever you wish to go west Samarkand
or south to the regions that are now in
Iran
Turkmenistan India and Afghanistan the
Silk Road is pretty easy to keep
straight up till now but once you embark
from Kashgar this is where the routes
varied a great deal there are four main
principal mountain ranges that play a
starring role in our story these
mountain range is more than anything
else shaped the geography of the Silk
Road west of kashgar north of the
Taklamakan desert where the ten Shan
Shan means mountains next range were the
palm ears that sort of began where the
Tian Shan ended and then the palm ears
would hook down to the south from from
Kyrgyzstan down to Afghanistan and then
next was the Hindu Kush which ran west
from the palm ears and then last but not
least are the Karakoram mountains that
run along the borders of China Pakistan
and Afghanistan a k2 is in this range
these mountains were all five to eight
thousand meters high and presented
traders and travelers with the ultimate
and cold weather and discomfort so all
the routes people ultimately took were
very much determined by how to best get
around all these obstacles the northern
route was less arduous than the southern
route but it took longer to get to where
all the action was and South Central
Asia the towns of the northern route
were all Oasis towns with names like
haami turf on cor la Kucha and Axew and
from there you entered what was once
Satya and ahead lay the Uzbek cities of
Tashkent Samarkand and Bukhara all
important trading centres for the
entirety of the history of the Silk Road
the southern route that ran south of the
Taklamakan desert that too was rimmed
with many choices towns char cleek
Church and Nia Korea kolten known as ho
Tian and Mandarin then once pilgrims
travelers and traders reached kashgar
they made their way south through the
Karakoram mountain
towards what is now present-day Jammu
and Kashmir where the ancient cities of
Srinagar and leh are located even with
the most modern and sophisticated
mountain gear and thermal clothing
trekking across the Karakoram would be a
formidable hike but from the second of
four centuries the time of the Han three
kingdoms in the Jin this was the main
road and over the centuries these
fearless men and their beasts of burden
laden with cargo would trek through
these mountains not for pleasure or
sport but for their own livelihood and
as the years went by they found the
safest and smoothest routes if you were
a trader you would most likely take the
northern route that dumped you off in
what is modern-day miss Becca Stein and
northern Pakistan if you were making the
journey for the sake of your Buddhist
faith you took the southern route
through the southeast edge of Xin Jiang
through the Hindu Kush to the Buddhist
kingdom of Taxila which today
interestingly enough would be in
modern-day Islamabad and Rawalpindi you
might even go further west from there to
mazar-e-sharif
and Afghanistan to the ancient trading
city of Balkh and beyond that lay the
town of Merve or mari and what is today
Turkmenistan every place had a market
and wherever there was a market that's
where you could sell your stuff and if
they weren't in it for the religion this
is what you did for a living and they
risk their life with every journey if
you made it this far beyond the Hindu
Kush Karakoram the worst was over to the
south lake parthia AKA persia to the
north lay the Caspian Sea and the Gulf
of Persia and Oman were to the south and
from these bodies of water there were a
myriad of ancient cities to go trade
with - all points of the known world and
this is how the Silk Road helped to make
a very big mysterious world a little
smaller if you kept going through
parthia through Baghdad Damascus and
Antioch you made it to the Holy Grail
and I'm not talking about the Holy Land
I'm talking about the Mediterranean Sea
from the shores of the eastern
Mediterranean you could sail on further
to the biggest market in the world
in Rome this was a long hard perilous
journey so it made no sense to be moving
trinkets back and forth
realistically you could only manage to
make one trip a year maybe two at most
if the first one went off without a
hitch so you had to maximize your
profits per journey back then you had to
pack up your camel or donkeys or
whatever with items of the highest
possible value and this is how the trade
and luxury goods went on for a couple
millennia it's the same today in my
business now of course we use shipping
containers and send cargo using these
massive container ships but that
container is a certain fixed cost if you
loaded it up with junks selling at a
dollar a piece the value inside that
container didn't add up to much maybe 30
40 thousand dollars well if you're
paying four thousand dollars for that
container forty thousand dollars where
the stuff inside means you're paying a
freight cost of 10 cents per piece but
if you loaded that container up with
Louis Vuitton bags and iPhones now
you're talking some hefty values which
completely dilutes your freight costs to
nothing so if you were fortunate enough
to make it all the way from Cheung on to
Pokhara laden with the most precious
things China had to offer you could take
a couple of years off back in the home
country and live as large as you wanted
and if you went to the ancient
equivalent of a duty-free shop you know
like you have in the airports of today
you'd notice all the nicest stuff came
from China China had the ultimate in
luxuries back then this was silk satin
lacquer where musk gems diamonds pearls
interestingly they also traded in
rhubarb a luxury back then but a common
garden plant today back in the day if
you needed a laxative and who didn't at
one time or another
you took rhubarb that was the Marillac
sword also lacks of its day and so it
was highly valued and if you were
suffering the effects of constipation
back in the Tong dynasty money was no
object and whatever rhubarb cost it was
worth it
rhubarb was one of many precious
commodities traded along the Silk Road
as a businessman and trader it's so
interesting for me to compare the
merchants of ancient times to today's
modern international importer/exporter
the mechanics of carrying out this
east-west trade were of course much
different but the ideas were all the
same 2,000 years ago
merchants setting out from kashgar still
had to deal with the same issues facing
today's trader
you know shoddy merchandise loss or
theft of cargo finding newer and better
suppliers logistics maximizing
profitability dealing with agents
opening up new markets a lot of the
headaches of the trading business
haven't changed much since those ancient
times when these traders traverse these
routes through these inhospitable climes
there wasn't much along the way as far
as water and vegetation went food you
can carry with you to a certain extent
but water which way too hefty 8 pounds
per gallon you couldn't carry that with
you it was utterly impractical but you
and your pack animals couldn't go a week
let alone many months without water and
you couldn't climb 4,000 feet up the
mountains to go get some snow each time
you needed a drink you had to get that
snow down to ground level and how to get
that snow and turn it into meltwater and
channel it to the routes that made up
the Silk Roads someone actually figured
out how to do this and if not for this
forget about having any Silk Road or
anything even closely resembling it 1st
millennium BC who do we have to thank
for this ancient engineering achievement
the ancestors of the Persians of course
these guys were smart still are today so
much knowledge and innovation came from
them they invented these things well
they go by many names but we call them
cannot QA na t a cannot was a was a
whole system of bringing water from the
mountains to the settled lands where you
could support agriculture and human life
they dug an underground horizontal
tunnel that would link up with the water
table and then perpendicular to this
underground horizontal tunnel would be a
series of Wells and
distinguishing feature of the cannot be
these well if you saw them they look
like these big mole hills or these
little mini volcanoes you would just
drop your bucket or whatever down these
wells and you get as much fresh mountain
water as you needed and it could be a
hundred degrees where you were standing
there but the water below the surface
was just as cold and crisp as it was
when it melted and along the routes that
collectively we call the Silk Road were
these networks of cannot so that not
only brought life-giving water to
thirsty travelers and their camels but
still do so today that's why these roads
were always so close to the mountains
the water came from the snow caps and
you had to be close to the source before
the Silk Road was the Silk Road it was
actually the main east-west trading
route for Jade Jade preceded silk is one
of the great luxury items of the time
much of the J treasures found in museums
in China and around the world travelled
this route one time or another but it
was silk that gave that legendary
Caravan route its name silk first
started showing up in ancient Rome
during the first century BC the time of
Julius Caesar it showed up before them
but it was the days of Caesar that silk
came into its own in the West that was
China's first major export to the world
Virgil spoke of silk in his writings he
mentioned it but no one knew for sure
what it was how it was made and where it
came from it was fabulously expensive in
301 ad you had the Edict of Diocletian
this Roman Emperor tried to set maximum
prices on you know various commodities
of the day I guess you could call them
price controls nothing on that list top
silk the Edict of Diocletian pegged silk
at a maximum price of one hundred and
fifty thousand denarii per pound now in
those days one Denarius contain three
grams of silver at today's silver prices
of approximately 25 euros per ounce in
one ounce equaling twenty eight point
three five grams that came to about
ninety cents euro per gram therefore
three grams of silver or a single
Denarius would be worth two euros
seventy or
little over three and a half dollars so
you do the math one hundred and fifty
thousand denarii times three and a half
bucks that's over half a million dollars
per pound of silk or four hundred
thousand euros now this is all of course
based on today's inflated silver prices
which you know of course we're much
higher than back then but I think you
get the picture silk was not a commodity
enjoyed by the hoi polloi you had to be
in the third century AD equivalent of
the Forbes 400 to enjoy the luxurious
feel of silk against your bare skin
Gaius Plinius secundus plenty the elder
who famously perished in 79 AD when
Vesuvius blew its top said of the
Chinese and their famous export quote
they are famous for the woollen
substance obtained from their forests
after soaking in water they comb off the
white down of the leaves and so supply
our women with a double task of
unraveling the threads and weaving them
together again so manifold is the labor
employed and so distant is the region of
the globe drawn upon to enable the Roman
maiden to flaunt transparent clothing in
public the series or silk people though
mild and character yet resemble wild
animals in that they also shun the
company of the remainder of mankind and
wait for trade to come to them the show
knew they loved silk and for all the
years that the Chinese were paying them
off to keep them at bay it was a huge
strain on the treasury 25 BC the Chinese
sent 20,000 rolls of silk out west to
the Xiong nu on top of this they also
sent 20,000 pounds of silk floss or raw
thread and then when you added it all up
it came to 10% of the entire China
annual revenues so China paying these
guys off to leave them alone was was
economically not sustainable
that's why humbled II and later
Emperor's had to ultimately take
military action the Xiong nu had been a
pain in the butt to China since even
before teacher Huang the first emperor
nobody could be
these guys and they they simply came in
from the West and at will just harass
the heck out of the Chinese but like
most people even down to today
they liked comfort and luxury when they
can get it so the Chinese kept them at
bay the old-fashioned way the same way
all rich and powerful countries do they
paid them off see travel wasn't as
practical back in the 1st century BC and
considering China's geography well you
couldn't just trek directly west across
the Himalayas that was totally
impractical you had to stay away from
the Gobi and Tok lomon deserts in the
north so they didn't have Google Earth
back then so they had to figure it out
the hard way now if you look at the
topography you go on Google Earth pretty
much the only practical overland routes
linking Rome with China were the many
sub routes that collectively we know
today is the Silk Road that was truly
the only overland way to move back and
forth and it all got found out naturally
through the amazing process of natural
selection these traders all figured out
the best ways to get from point A to
point B in a whole network of towns
cities trading centers and markets that
fed smaller markets who fed the nooks
and crannies of the least populated
mountain villages the whole thing
developed starting in the Han and
reached its zenith during the tongue
from 618 to 907 after John Chen when it
was learned that there were all these
cities out there the Silk Road was able
to connect all the dots to all these
famous ancient and historic cities and
the bottom line the moral of the story
is this is how East and West were able
to connect and after all this trade got
ramped up not only merchants but
scholars scientists artisans cooks and
you know well almost everyone
going in two directions merchandise
foodstuffs animals machines fine arts
stories of amazing feats new ideas
religion the more developed and safer
these routes became the faster the new
ideas and information
could flow all the knowledge of mankind
had up to that time been sequestered in
pockets all over the known world and it
was in all these nodes along the network
these places like Samarkand bukhara
cha-cha Kashgar Dunhuang Damascus those
were the hot houses where all this
knowledge seemed to accumulate and was
synthesized and developed and organized
and you know more and more people would
pass through these places and take some
of this new information with them and
share it back home
there was only a matter of time that
people would begin to travel the Silk
Road just for the sake of learning and
finding out new ideas all these years
the Chinese had jealously guarded their
secret paper making technique they tried
and they tried but once the Silk Road
was in full Garrett was like the
Internet of its day nothing was a secret
anymore and wouldn't you know it boo hoo
all these civilizations from the West
all started learning and copying China's
papermaking secrets and you know would
steal other kinds of Chinese
intellectual property what kind of trade
was going back and forth between China
and the West well we know China exported
silk lacquerware and jade but also quite
a bit of grain textiles and metal ware
was shipped to and like I said if the
goods traded were made in China nuff
said it was a guarantee of sorts that it
was of the highest quality the finest
materials and the most intricate
workmanship and these hearty and
fearless Western traders you know from
Central Asia they soon enough figured
out what it was that they had that the
Chinese wanted horses and donkeys were a
major item the markets for these kinds
of horses from Central Asia was
insatiable they really were the iPhone
fours of their day
heavenly horses they called them I
discussed them in the chung chien
episode the civilian and military
applications for these central asian
horses were innumerable besides these
prized horses there was also a quite a
market for rhino horn
yeah somehow this secret of the amazing
powers of rhino horn got out and was
embraced by all Chinese males of a
certain net worth and now 2,000 years
later rhinos in Africa and India are
facing extinction due to the market
demands of the medicinal powers of their
horns and if that's not enough the
Chinese early on in the history of the
Silk Road they got wind of the beauty
and wonders of ivory and what a fabulous
substrate it made for the ultimate and
carved object so elephants rhinos sort
of like McDonald's was to the humble cow
so was the Silk Road to these two
creatures who have from time immemorial
than such a marvel for mankind to behold
it didn't stop there tortoise shells
feathers of exotic birds hides of
ferocious wild animals and even live
animals
ostriches lions tigers giraffes you know
whatever big markets in China for this -
and just think about it for a second
even today in the 21st century shipping
a panda FedEx from Sichuan to you know
wherever in the world even today you
really gotta think this one out and
plant it down to the smallest detail
imagine back then a thousand 2,000 years
ago trying to get a rhinoceros from the
jungles of India to the court at
chun-yan even if you just tied it down
for the whole journey you still had to
feed it water it and if one single rhino
got there alive I wonder how many
perished in previous attempts there were
of course also many innocuous things
like fruits foodstuffs spices textiles
and whatnot that were also imported into
China Jiang Chen famously was credited
with introducing grapes to China and it
was with the introduction of many of
these new spices and foodstuffs that
Chinese food became what it became
imagine Chinese food without things like
sesame or peas or onions coriander
cucumbers and the Chinese people of
course they took two onions and voila a
new market was born and then after the
Chinese figured out how to grow
onions themselves the local market was
able to be supplied and the price of
onions would plummet and then the common
people the jungle allow by she they
could now enjoy this once exotic food
that was only found in the region around
bacteria you know there's so many
stories like this how the Silk Road
helped in many ways small and big other
high-value items exported to China from
out west included silverware from Persia
glassware from Syria amber that had come
all the way from Scandinavia and all the
exportable luxuries that Rome could
offer you know Chinese today love their
Prada terragamo and Gucci but made in
Italia was also a big thing back in the
Silk Road days choral brass wear purple
cloth all hot in China and this is you
know especially true during the Tong
dynasty long after Rome had fallen we've
learned from second century Chinese
literature that there came this amazing
invention from the Arabs or perhaps the
Persians Noah's sure that was carried
from west to east along the Silk Road
and it had quite an impact on Chinese
society in Chinese we call it a leader
in English it's called a chair it's only
in the Tong dynasty paintings where you
finally see for the first time people
sitting in chairs that have backs on
them
you look at all those old Han Dynasty
scroll paintings a life was very low to
the ground prior to this great
innovation that the Silk Road had
brought to China you already had a
pretty well-established elite during the
Han Dynasty sufficient enough to create
a market for luxury goods but by the
time of the Tong dynasty
rich people who could afford these once
unaffordable luxuries were a dime a
dozen so the market was vast and this
just fueled the Silk Road trade like
never before and if you walk down the
streets of Chung on back in the times of
Tung Shenzhen and young gray Fei you'd
see them all cooling their heels before
the long trip back Parthian sogdians
Weger Kazakhs Arabs
you name it in this Silk Road culture it
has so fascinated mankind for so long
and even today where you can be anywhere
you want in the world in less than a
day's time even today especially here in
America these places seem so far away
and distant Kazakhstan Uzbekistan
Kyrgyzstan this region has inspired
writers and adventurers for centuries
Wow I'm just getting warmed up here I
wrote something like 15 pages of notes
and I still have four books unopened
with little page flags in them that I
was going to reference and we've hardly
even got started I'm only on page four
of my notes and here we are like almost
40 minutes into the episode and it's
already time to call it a day
so I titillated you with how Buddhism
tied in with the whole Silk Road believe
me that was the main route between China
and India the number of Buddhist
pilgrims dwarfed the number of traders
who traverse the Silk Roads I didn't
even get to the incredible journey of
the monks shinsung sororal Stein and his
discoveries at dun Wong no time for that
in this episode so despite everything I
blabbered out about this past half hour
we hardly even scratch the surface
there's much more to this epic so that
will have to remain fodder for future
episodes I hope that entices you all to
hang in there for a while we'll come
back and look at all these subtopics of
the Silk Road another time a nandus and
Wu Shi I know you're muttering under
your breath oh here he goes again but
I'm gonna say it anyway I saved it to
the end so whoever is here just for the
history and nothing else hit that stop
button we're done we'll see you next
week maybe I have to attend a few
meetings in good old shun Jun this week
so I'm taking that cafe flight tonight
to Hong Kong and like last time I will
take any number of convenient methods of
transport from Hong Kong Airport to
Shenzhen in an a semi-conscious fog of
jetlag I will do what I have to do for
three days and then I will come back and
so all my smart and
looking listeners if more than seven
days goes by again and for the second
time there's nothing new here at the
China history podcast is John Lennon
said in your blues girl you know the
reason why thanks to John in the
Wolverine State Michigan USA I've gone
back and taken care of some cosmetic
work on the podcast settings I don't
know why I listen to him but my former
guru told me to spell out the whole word
without abbreviations China history
podcast and then the episode number and
the title well I noticed when I did it
this way all the visible spaces used you
know to display the episode at an iPod
or in the iTunes store we're all wasted
and filled up with these useless words
you can't see the title of the episode
and I've been meaning to fix this for
some time but I was thinking nobody's
complaining but John emailed me and I
figured I better prioritize that so
that's all fixed thanks again John go
General Motors you can redownload the
files if you want to go to that trouble
I did so everything's now just like it
used to be CHP you know whatever
followed by the title and so now that
I've reached the end of this podcast I'm
going to retitle this episode the early
years of the Silk Road rather than just
you know the plain old Silk Road what
can I say my eyes were bigger than my
stomach and I bit off more than I could
chew thinking I could cover this whole
massive topic in one single episode who
was I kidding
we'll come back and revisit the Silk
Road because believe it or not a whole
lot happened also after the Tong dynasty
I mean we didn't even mention Marco Polo
I just did and so from Claremont
California this is Lazlo Montgomery
wishing you all a pleasant farewell and
a fond adieu from the China history
podcast join us next time whenever that
may be I hope it's not too long for
another presumably exciting episode of
the China history podcast